Document the JDBC SQL connector (#517)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/sql/pages/mapping-to-jdbc.adoc

= Mapping to JDBC

> :description: To query external data stores, you can create a mapping to them with the JDBC connector.

Author: ```suggestion
:description: To query external data stores, you can create a mapping to them with the JDBC connector.
:page-beta: true
```

> :description: To query external data stores, you need to create a mapping with the JDBC connector so that the SQL service knows how to access the data store.

Author: ```suggestion
:description: To query external data stores, you can create a mapping to them with the JDBC connector.
```

{description}

== What is the JDBC Connector

The JDBC connector allows you to connect to any database that supports the JDBC interface.

== Installing the Connector

> This connector is included in the full and slim distributions of Hazelcast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JDBC connector is included in the full and slim distributions of Hazelcast.
```

== Permissions
[.enterprise]*Enterprise*

If xref:security:enabling-jaas.adoc[security] is enabled, your clients may need permissions to use this connector. For details, see xref:pipelines:job-security.adoc[].

== Before you Begin

Before you can create a mapping to an external data store, you must have the following:

- A JDBC driver that's compatible with your data store. This driver must be on your cluster members' classpaths:

> ** The full distribution comes with a JDBC driver for MySQL and PostgresSQL data stores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The full distribution of Hazelcast comes with a JDBC driver for MySQL and PostgreSQL data stores.
```

> ** The slim distribution does not come with a JDBC driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The slim distribution of Hazelcast does not come with a JDBC driver.
```

- A xref:external-data-stores:external-data-stores.adoc[data store connection] that's configured on all cluster members.

== Creating a JDBC Mapping

Use the `CREATE MAPPING` statement to tell the JDBC connector the name of your data store configuration.

For example, consider that you already have a connection configured to a MySQL database.

```yaml
external-data-store:
  mysql-database: <3>
    class-name: com.hazelcast.datastore.JdbcDataStoreFactory
    properties:
      jdbcUrl: jdbc:mysql://dummy:3306
      username: xyz
      password: xyz
    shared: true
```

You then create the following `people` table:

```sql

> CREATE TABLE (id INT PRIMARY KEY, name VARCHAR(100))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE TABLE people (id INT PRIMARY KEY, name VARCHAR(100))
```

= Mapping to JDBC
:description: To query external data stores, you can create a mapping to them with the JDBC connector.
:page-beta: true

{description}

== What is the JDBC Connector

The JDBC connector allows you to connect to any database that supports the JDBC interface.

== Installing the Connector

The JDBC connector is included in the full and slim distributions of Hazelcast.

== Permissions
[.enterprise]*Enterprise*

If xref:security:enabling-jaas.adoc[security] is enabled, your clients may need permissions to use this connector. For details, see xref:pipelines:job-security.adoc[].

== Before you Begin

Before you can create a mapping to an external data store, you must have the following:

- A JDBC driver that's compatible with your data store. This driver must be on the classpath of your cluster members:
** The full distribution of Hazelcast comes with a JDBC driver for MySQL and PostgreSQL data stores.
** The slim distribution of Hazelcast does not come with a JDBC driver.
- A xref:external-data-stores:external-data-stores.adoc[data store connection] that's configured on all cluster members.

> == Creating a JDBC Mapping

Author: We don't have a section about using the mapping or supported statements, but if there is a limited list of statements that you can use, we should definitely document those here. Do we have a list?

Also, are there any details that users need to be able to use the mapping?

> == Creating a JDBC Mapping

Reviewer 2: In 5.2 we support `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE` and `DELETE`.

Use the `CREATE MAPPING` statement to tell the JDBC connector the name of your data store configuration.

For example, consider that you already have a connection configured to a MySQL database.

```yaml
external-data-store:
  mysql-database: <3>
    class-name: com.hazelcast.datastore.JdbcDataStoreFactory
    properties:
      jdbcUrl: jdbc:mysql://dummy:3306
      username: xyz
      password: xyz
    shared: true
```

> You then create the following `people` table:

Author: ```suggestion
You then create the following `people` table in the MySQL database:
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE people (id INT PRIMARY KEY, name VARCHAR(100))
```

Your mapping must contain explicit column names that match the data types in the database.

```sql
CREATE MAPPING people (
  <1>
  id INT, 
  name VARCHAR 
) 
TYPE JDBC <2>
OPTIONS ( 
  'externalDataStoreRef'='mysql-database' <3>

> )

Author: are there other options that are prefixed with `jdbc`?

> )

Reviewer 2: At the moment there isn't.
